Welcome back everyone to this lecture on series series or similar to Empire race.
Except that we can actually give them a name or date time index instead of just a numerical index.
Let's open up a Jupiter notebook and see how they work.
OK so let's begin understanding how to work with Ceres and we're going to use Sirius later on to work
with data frames.
I'm first going to import some pie and P and then I will import panderers as PD then to create a series
you can actually convert many object types to a series.
Let's show you how you can do that.
I'm going to create a list called labels and we'll just have these labels.
B A B C and Lalage's.
ABC.
Keep it simple anoints create illest numbers.
This will be 10 20 30 and then I'm going to create a name Pyra which would just be an umpire A and I'll
do the same numbers here at 10 20 30 and then I'm also going to create a dictionary which is going to
have a key of a letter and then the value of a number.
So say a 10 B 20 C and let's make C here 100 and make sure that's a string.
There we go.
So I have my labels list in my list of numbers an array of numbers and a dictionary.
So let's show you how you can actually create a list using these various objects to create a series
from a list you can just pass it in as my list and you'll see PD that series and you see my list.
If you take a look at the documentation for series you'll notice that there's basically two main arguments
that we're going to be passing that is the data argument and the index argument.
So basically creates a one dimensional and the array.
However it has axis labels.
That's something that differentiates it from just a normal name pyrite.
Right now if you just passen my list which is these data points 10:23 you see that we have an index
position 0 matched up with a value 10.
Now what we can also do is set the index to be labels.
And now if you take a look at the series we've been able to index of a name label.
So we have a which was this label matched up to the state of point 10.
And that's kind of where the power of series comes into play.
Now you can also create series from other object types.
Not just a list.
You could also passen that array and you would get the same values out.
And then you could also pass in the array with the labels and Lotusphere indicating that data is equal
to array or indexical labels.
You can just pass them InfoSpace find those parameters and you'll get back the same results.
You can also use that dictionary that we created.
So if you pass in a dictionary what this will do is it will look at the dictionary and assign the keys
the index and then the item to be the actual value at that point.
Now something that's also impressive about a panda series besides is ability to have named indices is
the fact that it can hold a variety of object types.
So right now we saw that it just holds numerical objects but we could also say Petey's series and I
could specify the data to be equal to that labels list.
And now you'll notice it automatically fills in that numerical index.
And then the data becomes strings or labels and you can also see the type indicating what the actual
object type is.
So you have 64 bit integers 32 bit integers etc..
Now something else you can even do here while this is extremely uncommon.
I just want to show you how flexible panda series are.
You can even pass in a list of built in functions.
Such as some prints and length Those are all built in functions you can see the syntax highlighting
there and series won't actually complain that you're passing and functions in fact it will store them
as built in functions so you could call them out later on.
Again this is extremely uncommon and we won't really ever use this.
I just want to show you how flexible the panda series is.
OK let's go over how to use an index with a the series which is pretty much the most crucial part of
understanding how a series works.
To do this I'm going to create a series and I will say PD series I will set that equal to a variable
called se or 1 in the pass in my data just to be 1 2 3 4 and then for my index.
I'm just going to pass in some countries will say USA China let's say France and then Germany.
So if I take a look at series 1 I have USA as one.
China's two France's three.
Germany's four that is going to create another series and I'm going to copy and paste these values here.
But instead of actually providing the same index I'm going to change some of these countries so let's
say instead of France will put in Italy and Germany will put in Japan
will run that and then I see Series 2.
So if you ever want to access a value from a series you can basically just do it with an index call.
So you'll say S-E are one and then pasan.
Whatever the index name is so if I want to grab the value for USA in this first series I just passen
here as a string USA and it returns one for me.
Likewise if I want to grab the value for Japan here I'll say Sirius to
Japan and will return for now if you try to index something that's not in the series.
For example let's say Canada was not in either of these series.
So if you try to index you'll get an error.
So keep in mind it's not so flexible where it's just going to produce none.
It will tell you that there's an error that it can find the key and you'll end up usually getting a
key error.
And if you scroll all the way down it says here.
Canada essentially indicating that there is no key called Canada.
There let's go ahead and erase that.
And then finally before we jump over to data friends which is what we're really going to be working
with most of the time you can also do operations that are based off an index position.
So if I were to say serious one plus series two and run this you'll see that it ends up adding up the
values for where there was a match.
So the only countries that match between series 1 and series 2 happens to be USA and China.
So what it does when you add these series together is it adds them up.
Where there is a match and then if there wasn't a match it gives you a null value and when the work
of data friends of Panas later on we'll see how we can set null values to be zero and ignore them etc..
But I just want to get the idea in your mind.
They can perform operations based off of the index positions.
All right that's really it for series.
We're going to be using them a lot more when we talk about data frames and how you can construct a data
frame based off of multiple series objects.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.